[slow instrumental music playing]
[gate creaking]
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
[Alba] The day I was born
my grandma Clara saw my future.
And she said the stars had aligned
to bestow me with gifts
that would overcome any terrible
twists of fate.
But in time. I forgot.
[water pattering]
[sobbing]
[pensive music playing]
[rattling]
[gasps]
Grandma.
[exhilarating instrumental music playing]
[switch clicks]
[captivating instrumental music playing]
My grandmother wrote in her diaries
that memory is fragile.
And the course of a life is so brief
that we fail to perceive
the connection between events.
And we cannot measure
the consequences of our actions.
[Alba grunts]
[gasps softly]
That's why ever since she was little.
my grandma recorded everything
in hundreds of life diaries.
So that 50 years later.
I could use her writings
to reclaim the past.
and to overcome horrors of my own.
[opening theme music playing]
[creaks]
[thuds]
[Alba] Clara del Valle. my grandma.
always had one foot in this world
and the other in the afterlife.
[Young Teresa] Give it back. please!
Give it to me!
-You gave it to me!
-No. I did not!
[indistinct shouting]
Give it back! Stop that!
Give it back!
Knock it off! Mom said you should hurry!
-I asked for it yesterday.
-No!
-[arguing continues]
-What on God's green earth
-are you all doing here? Huh?
-[Young Luis] It's mine!
Didn't I already tell you
to go get dressed? Now. go!
And you. Clarita. you also have to get
ready for mass. my child.
-[sighs in exasperation] Ay. ay. ay.
-I won't go.
You can't stay here.
You don't get to make the rules.
young lady.
[indistinct shouting]
[Nana] Oh. Lord. These kids think
the house tidies up after itself!
Ugh! Sweetie! Go over there.
You're going to end up all sweaty!
Nana. help me.
God. I'm running late for mass.
[Alba] Clara developed her psychic powers
with encouragement from her beloved
Uncle Marcos.
an insatiable explorer
who gathered esoteric knowledge
from all over the world.
I won't go to mass.
-Why not?
-Uncle Marcos is on his way.
Sweetie. Uncle Marcos is still travelling.
He's far far away.
I know. But he's coming.
And I wanna be home
when he gets here.
Rosa!
I have no idea.
[Alba] Her older sister. Rosa.
was the only one who really understood
Clara's eccentricities.
Maybe because she didn't belong
to this world. either.
This place is great to hide out in.
These creatures are gonna protect it.
Can you tell me why we're hiding now?
I don't get why we have to go to mass.
Mom says we can speak to God directly
if we want.
[chuckles] Right.
I'm gonna tell you a secret.
There's a lot of things in this world
I'll never understand.
But I've reached the conclusion
that it's because
some are just illogical.
Don't you think you're a little old
for this?
[all laughing]
Dad. if you're talking
about my embroidery.
I'm not going to stop
until it's the biggest
-table cloth in the world.
-Time to go.
-[indistinct chatter]
-[bell tolling]
-[man] Good morning.
-Hello. ladies. How are you?
Thank you. hi.
How are you?
Good morning.
Great entrance. candidate.
-Nivea.
-Hello. Good to see you.
-Good morning.
-Please.
I reserved the third row
so we can sit together.
-Perfect.
-It was nothing.
Excuse me.
No. no. no. Please don't.
Honey. look. they're watching us.
It's not normal.
Well. get accustomed to it. It'll be worse
when you're elected senator.
[Father Restrepo] On this holy Thursday.
we had to enter penance
remembering the day when Jesus Christ
the son of God.
gave his life for our sins.
-So it is. brothers and sisters--
-Dad?
-Hmm?
-Good thing they put
the covers on the saints.
Because the blood they paint on them
is disgusting.
Shh! Pay attention. Clara.
[Father Restrepo continues indistinctly]
[woman 1] Oh. my God. look at Rosa.
She's from another planet. right?
[woman 1] She's an angel.
Or a mermaid.
[enchanting instrumental music playing]
[Father Restrepo] And now
Hell awaits us all
unless we turn back in repentance…
[continues indistinctly]
[man] Unbelievable!
After all this time.
they keep selling us the story
of Hell as if it were fresh bread!
Why the sad look. Clara?
-Should I leave now?
-No!
-[shushes]
-[indistinct chatter]
Oh. my God. Who is she talking to?
I really miss you. Uncle Marcos.
Look at the bright side.
Now. I don't have to get on a boat
to come see you.
I just have to do this. [clicks fingers]
And voila!
Isn't it great? [chuckles]
Barrabás! Release. Barrabás!
Release. Barrabás!
Have you practiced your powers?
[gasps] Many of the living
would give anything
to do what we can.
You're special. Clara.
You're gonna help so many people.
A horde of pure sinners saved him.
saved Barrabás from the fires of Hell.
[gasps. groans]
Which one do you want me
to release?
The chief priests and the elders.
they suggested the multitude
-to choose Barrabás. to save Barrabás…
-[blabbering]
-[chuckling]
-…standing in opposition
to those who called
for Christ's salvation.
That is why the bandit Barrabás was saved.
That's why. that is the reason why
every one of you sinners must do penance
or you'll spend the rest of eternity
burning in the flames of Hell.
Straight to Hell!
Back then. the… [clears throat]
[indistinct chatter]
Father Restrepo.
what if Hell doesn't exist?
[Father] What are you saying. brat?
What did you say?
Well. you've never been dead. so.
you can't possibly know
-what's on the other side.
-You must be possessed by the Devil!
[indistinct chatter]
[Father] She is possessed!
Madness! Prideful!
Father!
That girl is possessed by the Devil!
Be gone!
Only a fanatic like Father Restrepo
can still believe in the Devil
in the 20th century.
Yes. but that's not the point.
The point is if they find out about
Clarita's exploits.
people will start gossiping.
My candidacy for the Liberal Party
has gone to hell.
Oh. don't exaggerate.
[Severo] I can't deal with people talking
about my family.
We've had enough of your brother.
No. I'm not gonna let you blame Marcos
for every little thing that comes to mind.
[Severo] I knew he'd be
a bad influence on Clara.
-And now--
-Careful what you say. Severo del Valle!
Remember that our family will always be
more important than our personal agendas.
Don't you forget that.
And we love Clarita
just the way she is.
[engine starts]
I'm so hungry! I need to eat now!
-Teresa!
-Stop that. Ana!
-No. Ana. no!
-Wait. my leg!
She's so annoying!
[Young Teresa] Mom. who are they?
-Uncle Marcos?
-[Young Luis] It's Uncle Marcos!
-[Nivea] Marcos!
-[child] Who is it?
You-- Your brother's here.
I mean… your brother's body.
-No!
-What is it?
Nana! Nana!
[breath trembling] Marcos?
Open it!
[Alba] That was how Uncle Marcos
returned from his last trip.
He'd been killed by a mysterious
African disease
that made you wrinkled and yellowed.
like papyrus.
[Nana] Clarita told us he was coming.
-[somber instrumental music playing]
-[sobbing]
[dog barking]
[dog barking and whimpering]
Rosa!
A little dog!
How are you doing?
-Oh!
-It's all right.
-[dog whimpering]
-He's so tiny.
-Barrabás.
[Rosa chuckles]
[Alba] That would've been
one of the saddest days of her life
if Barrabás hadn't arrived
with Uncle Marcos's possessions
and Rosa hadn't been by her side
supporting her.
[keys clacking]
-[Young Clara] Oh!
-Clarita…
Uncle Marcos brought so many books.
Take a peek.
-[chuckles]
-[Barrabás whimpers]
He wrote down all of his adventures.
-Look. Paris!
-Wow!
Clara. you could follow
in his footsteps. right?
Write down your adventures.
Here's a little diary.
It's brand new. [exhales] Look.
[soft instrumental music playing]
-Thank you.
-Any time.
[Alba] Barrabás came into the family
by sea.
Those were the first words my grandma
wrote in her life diaries.
as she liked to call them.
[Severo] That is called bribery.
and it's a crime.
[advisor] In this country.
all of the most respected senators
got into Congress in this manner.
But I'm a lawyer.
My job is to protect laws
and prevent abuses
exactly like this from occurring.
Well. the scandal on this past
holy Thursday
didn't go over well. my friend.
And we're on the verge of the elections.
Look. I promised my wife that
if I did this. I'd play fair.
Well. if just keeping her happy
is what you need.
this is the best way.
No other man except you
will push forward the petition
of the suffragettes.
[woman] We have to talk
to the real people.
With the town's people.
And go door to door.
break into the factory
and really make some noise.
[Nivea] If my husband is elected senator.
we'll be able to make these changes
from Congress.
Maybe. if your husband
were a woman. like us.
[all chuckling]
[woman 2] We want others
to make changes
and we haven't even thought
about taking off our corsets.
You take it off now!
-[all laughing]
-[woman 1] My God. this child!
-Senora.
-She's the young--
Look. Another letter for Rosa.
Hmm. Thank you. Nana.
-Mom. may I see it?
-No.
From Ester Trueba's son?
[Nivea] Yes. the young man secured
a claim for a gold mine.
Poor guy. he's been mining
for almost two years.
-[woman 2] That long?
-Well. why. Mommy?
Because he's a man who's very determined
and I really like that.
Right? Because when a woman's
as beautiful as Rosa.
men are too timid to even approach her.
Thank you.
Look.
Oh. it's beautiful. Clarita.
-Can we buy it. Rosa?
-Let's see.
[chuckles softly]
[Nana] Come on. girls. let's go.
Oh! Shoo! Shoo! Shoo!
Always stalking Rosita!
Savages!
Hurry up. girls.
Excuse me.
What's your name?
Who wants to know?
Esteban Trueba.
Keep walking. or I won't hear
the end of it.
Her name is Rosa del Valle!
And she has nobody else courting her!
-Clara!
[Young Clara chuckling]
Rosa.
[Alba] That afternoon.
the beautiful Rosa entered
Esteban Trueba's life
like a distracted angel stealing his soul.
And from then on.
he promised himself that he'd do
anything he could
to become a wealthy man.
worthy of taking her to the altar.
-[breathing heavily]
-[piano music playing]
Rosa! Another letter!
May I read it?
"My beloved beautiful Rosa.
-the--"
-Give me that.
"The seconds here are endless
without you."
[gasps]
I want someone to love me as much
as Esteban loves Rosa.
I still don't understand
what love has to do
with mining a bunch of rocks
to get rich.
Because he adores you!
-I don't want gold.
-Neither do I.
Don't you want somebody
to give you a house like this?
-No.
-What do you mean?
You'll live off of your
made-up creatures?
Maybe.
I want that. too.
-[Young Luis] I don't get it.
-You want that. too?
[music playing]
-[Young Clara] Barrabás!
-[barking]
[Alba] For Clara.
time passed with nothing more note-worthy
than the limitless growth
of her dog Barrabás.
Popular fantasy and ignorance
regarding his breed
led to attributing him
with mythological characteristics.
Everyone adored him.
Except the new senator Severo del Valle.
-You beast from hell!
-[barking]
-And Nana.
-Out! Get out!
[continues barking]
[pensive music playing]
[birds screeching]
[breath trembling]
Someone's going to die!
-[panting]
-[Nivea] What's wrong. honey?
Someone's about to die.
[Young Ana and Luis] What?
No. my love. Don't worry about it.
That won't happen. all right?
But. wait.
Clara said I was gonna fall off the horse.
and it did happen.
Please do me the honor
of congratulating the new senator
of the republic.
Have you seen a ghost or something?
You better change those sad faces.
Today. we're celebrating.
Sir. more gifts.
This nice liquor
and a roast pig came from your voters
in the south.
I think I should travel soon
to thank them.
-[Nana] Mm-hmm.
-No! Don't go. Dad!
What's wrong with her?
[Nivea] I'll explain later.
That's it. Careful now.
Don't let it fall and get ruined.
Mm! It's a massive creature!
[gasps]
[indistinct chatter]
[piano music playing]
[music stops]
[all applauding]
Severo. please everyone.
if you'd come to hear a few words
from our honorable senator.
Beautiful.
[Nivea] Let's listen to your father.
[Severo] Thank you.
Thank you all for coming here
to celebrate this day with me.
Although I think I should
really be thanking
-the lack of candidates.
-[all laughing]
-Mom?
-Mm-hmm?
I don't want anything bad
to happen to Dad.
No. he'll be just fine. my love.
Don't worry about it.
[Severo] It's a great honor for me
-to represent Liberal Party in Congress.
-Let's go to the back. sweetie.
As you all know.
I have been fortunate enough…
-[continues indistinctly]
-That looks delicious. Ooh!
-Wow! Ooh!
-It has fruit!
-I guess I'll…
-I hope you enjoyed the superb meal
and that you return for seconds
for my family's sake.
or we'll be eating southern style pork
for a week!
[all laughing]
Cheers!
[guests] Cheers!
-[man] Bravo!
-Congratulations.
[all applauding]
-[rain pattering]
-[thunder rumbling]
[Young Clara groaning]
[wind howling]
No! No!
Calm down.
Clara. it's all right. calm down.
[sighing]
I don't want anybody to die.
Don't worry.
You were having a nightmare.
Here. try to sleep.
I'm scared. Stay with me.
Of course. Move over.
It's freezing.
You know I'll always be here with you.
Don't you forget.
[chuckles softly]
[taps]
Your hand.
[Rosa coughing]
Aah!
It's a common cold.
[chuckles] See? I told you.
-All good.
-Give her lemonade and sugar
and some liquor
to sweat off the fever.
No. no. Give her the liquor
I was given as a gift.
Thank you. I appreciate it.
I'll walk you to the door.
[somber instrumental music playing]
[grunting]
[Alba] That same day.
after a long period of isolation
and effort.
Esteban Trueba got
what he was longing for.
[breathing heavily]
[straining]
[Alba] He could finally fulfil his dream
of marrying Rosa.
[Rosa] Give me the red thread. please.
-Nana!
-[Nana] Hmm?
-Barrabás will be on the tablecloth!
-[Nana gasps]
At any moment. that beast
is going to grow horns!
-And wings.
-[Nana groans]
Thank you.
-[Nana sighs]
-Cheers!
Cheers.
-[chuckles]
-Drink it all.
[Rosa] Mm-hmm.
Ugh.
-Here.
-[Young Clara chuckles]
Thank you. Nana.
[somber instrumental music playing]
[Barrabás barks]
[breathing heavily. shuddering]
[footsteps approaching]
[Nana humming]
[sniffs]
What are you doing there. Clarita?
Why is it so dark? What's wrong?
Oh! Why does it smell so much
like roses in here?
Rosita?
Sweetie?
Rosa?
Oh! Oh. God! [gasps]
[yelling in Spanish]
[somber instrumental music playing]
[breath trembling]
[sobbing]
I'm very sorry.
This wasn't caused by a mere fever.
Did Rosa do something
out of the ordinary?
Maybe she ate something
the others didn't try?
Mm. nothing. No. I don't know.
Um…
that lemonade that you told me to give her
-with a dash of liquor--
-Clarita.
-I think it was me.
-No. No!
No. it wasn't your fault.
You mustn't say that again.
you hear me?
Promise?
[both sobbing]
[somber instrumental music playing]
I wasn't expecting you today.
Good day.
Here.
I suspect
this is what killed your daughter.
What did you say?
I need your authorization
to perform an autopsy.
But do you need to cut her open?
No. Severo. no. Not completely. no.
I won't have to touch her head.
But to do that. I need to take Rosa
to the morgue.
To the morgue?
-Nivea.
-Not to the morgue!
No. no. no. No.
-All right.
-[Doctor] Hmm.
-No one will be taking my daughter away.
-[Severo] Of course not.
Yes. she stays.
Do you swear?
-Swear it. Swear. Severo. Swear to me!
-I do!
-[grunts]
-Nivea!
[sobs]
Ah. my love.
-[Nivea sobbing]
-My love. Nivea. Hey.
[Nivea] Don't touch her.
-Don't touch her.
-Nivea.
Listen. It's all right.
-Nivea. Here. please. drink.
-Please. Nivea. Calm.
Drink. It'll calm your nerves.
Please drink. Just a sip. Just a sip.
Sorry. my love.
I'm doing this for the family.
Nana. tell everyone
to go home for the night.
-Yes. sir.
-And have Clarita sleep with Teresa.
Please. Nana.
She can't sleep alone.
[groans]
[knocking at door]
Severo.
-Good evening--
-[shushes]
[somber instrumental music playing]
Careful.
There was rat poison
in the bottle of liquor.
It was enough to fell an ox.
Now. we only have to prove medically
that it was an assassination.
We need to undress her. Severo.
Forgive me. my child.
[somber instrumental music continues]
[breath trembling]
[Severo] I'm so sorry. I can't stay.
Rosa?
[fire crackling]
-[knocking at door]
-[door opens]
Sir?
Where's our darling Rosa?
With the doctor.
-In the kitchen.
-But--
Wait. please stay.
Stay here.
Come have a drink. Please.
Have a seat.
Thank you.
It's my fault. Nana.
-No--
-I'm afraid it was my fault.
It should be me.
I'm the one who should be dead.
No. don't say that. sir!
Not my Rosa!
[sobbing]
Nana.
[both sobbing]
[intense music playing]
[Doctor] Poor child.
This was meant for Severo.
I have to let him know.
I'm quitting politics
and the Liberal Party as well.
All that rubbish.
[both sigh]
[breathing heavily]
And no one in my family
will ever get mixed up in politics again!
[intense music continues]
[thuds]
[soft instrumental music playing]
[Alba] My Grandma Clara carried
all the emptiness of the world within her.
She was utterly swallowed by silence.
And she kept her voice locked away
for nine long years.
[typewriter keys clacking]
Rosa's murder
was the first of many acts of violence
that shaped the fate of my family.
[all chanting prayers]
[indistinct conversation]
[Alba] The police tried to follow
the trail of the poisoned bottle
but neither they
nor the detective hired
by my great-grandfather Severo
could find the identity of the assassins.
[all chanting prayers]
[Alba] And the shadow
of vengeance deferred
has haunted every generation
that followed.
[all continue chanting prayers]
[Barrabás whimpering]
Clarita?
Clarita. my love?
Come and say goodbye to your sister.
[sighs]
This didn't happen because you said so.
You're able to predict things but. um.
not necessarily prevent them.
My sweet angel.
[Barrabás continues whimpering]
[man] Where are you keeping her?
I want to see her!
Rosa!
[indistinct chatter]
[somber instrumental music playing]
My Rosa.
I'm sorry for not keeping my promise.
I'm sorry it took me so long.
[voice shaking] I'm sorry
it took me so long.
Come with us. Esteban.
[Young Teresa] Nana.
Why can't we go with my dad?
[engine starts]
Well. funerals are men's business.
my love.
[grunts]
[Nivea] Clarita!
[Severo] Stop the car.
Anyway. jump in.
Come here. sweetie.
[somber instrumental music continues]
Are you Clara?
Rosa mentioned you a lot
in her letters.
How old are you?
[Severo] Clara. why won't you
tell him?
[Alba] Clara kept her silence
but in that moment she knew
that her fate and Esteban Trueba's
would be forever bound together.
[exhilarating instrumental music playing]
[music continues]
[dramatic music playing]
[music stops]
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm